Proposal:  An exercise in Forecasting Etherium
Author: John Neville
Institution:  Regis University
Phone:  (248) 703-8915
Email:  JPNeville@gmail.com

Description:
The purposes of this exercise is to broaden my horizons in my study of data sciences by focusing on areas that
I have not yet attempted, while applying the underlying pricples that I have studied in the past.  I will be exploring the predictive 
capabilities of several methods in order to determine the future value of the cryptocurrency Etherium.  For this exercise I will force
myself to explore using Python, where the majority of my study has been spent using R.  I would like to attempt constructing an UI that
will make it easy to interact and decipher results, while providing a means to run different scenarios given the models that are in place.

Presentation:
I will use a MongoDb database to store data that is retrieved from an api hosted by the site cryptocompare.com and build an application
layer on top that calls on python to interpret the market.  This application layer will most likley be in an html format.  In my experience,
I have used the Shiny package in R to present my results.  For the sake of learning, I have explored a few libraries that are simillar 
in Python, such as the Dash library (https://medium.com/@plotlygraphs/introducing-dash-5ecf7191b503).  I will take advantage of these to 
apply the same foundations that I have in a new way.

Analysis:
The methods used to evaluate the future value of the currency will vary.  I have not yet decided on a particular model or type of
model to explore.  There are other examples and explorations into predicting the value of Bitcoin, which I will likely reference to
determine potential pitfalls.  An example of one of these is pyTrader (https://github.com/owocki/pytrader).  In this model, they lost a
significant amount of money in transaction fees, which is something to be aware of in these models.  I will attempt to limit the number
of transactions or search for potentially low transaction fee options.  I few things that I want to explore are Timeseries models,
and differenet renditions on Timeseries models and certain classifiers.  There are a few libraries that I want to use for this such as
the tsfresh library (https://github.com/blue-yonder/tsfresh), which allows for supervised classifiers to be applied to the data.
I would like to explore VAR models, maybe looking at other currencies to help inform the model.  Some libraries for that include
statsmodels (http://www.statsmodels.org/dev/install.html) or PyFlux(http://www.pyflux.com/vector-autoregression/).
A third, more out of the box approach that I would like to take if I have time, so to scrub twitter or news documents for sentiment
toward the currency.  I may attempt to do this WITH some of the other models to come to a conclusion on whether to buy or sell.
Models will be evaluated either based on their accuracy, both in real time, and on past values.

Data:
Data will be straight forward for the currency part of this project. It can be retrieved from an API that has the trading price
on several markets.  The site that provides this is www.cryptocompare.com.  Other information such as sentiment will likely need to be
scraped, also requiring an API.  This is something that I have done before, and feel relatively comfortable doing it.  The size of the 
data will likely not be extravagant, but significant.  The currecny itself has not been around that long, but the number of features
may grow as the project moves forward.

Timeline:
Infrastructure and data gathering will be the first big hurdle and will likely take a significant amount of time to get organized
in the way that I desire.  I will skip ahead past the UI segment to meet the needs of the class and to get an understanding of
what I have at my disposal.  The biggest challenge will be getting familliar with a new environment in Python, but I look to put my
head down and jump right in.  Once I have models that work and a solid data repository, I will move to the presentation layer.
I think it is important to provide interactive results in a professional way, as this is where the true value lies in any project.
